Folic Acid (Folate)
Medication Information Leaflet
What is the medication used for?
Folic acid (or folate) is a type of vitamin naturally found in some foods that helps the body to produce red blood cells. A lack of folic acid may result in folate-deficiency anemia, a condition in which there is insufficient healthy red blood cells to provide oxygen to the body.
During pregnancy, folic acid supplementation may reduce the incidence of birth defects (e.g., abnormal development of brain and spinal cord in the baby).
Folic acid supplementation may be required in those with certain conditions (e.g., kidney disease, excessive alcohol intake) or taking certain medications (e.g., Methotrexate, Sulfasalazine).

How should I take/use the medication?
	-	Do not stop taking your medications without checking with your healthcare professional.
	-	This medication may be taken with or without food.
What should I do if I forget to take/use this medication?
If you miss a dose, take the missed dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for your next dose, take only the usual dose. Do not double your dose or use extra medication to make up for the missed dose.

What precautions should I follow when taking the medication?
Inform your healthcare professional if:
	-	You are allergic to this medication, or any of the other ingredients in this medication.
	-	You are taking any other medications, including supplements, traditional medications, and herbal remedies.
What are some common side-effects of this medication?
Generally, this medication is well tolerated without any significant side effects.

What are some rare but serious side-effects that I need to seek medical advice immediately?
The symptoms of a drug allergy include one or more of the following:
	-	Swollen face/eyes/lips/tongue
	-	Difficulty in breathing
	-	Itchy skin rashes over your whole body
If you experience any of these symptoms, you should stop your medication and see your healthcare professional immediately.

How should I store the medication?
Store in a cool and dry place, away from direct sunlight. Keep this medication away from children. Throw away all expired medications.
How should I throw away this medication safely?
Pack this medication into a black trash bag and seal it tightly before throwing it into the rubbish chute or bin.

Disclaimers
Please take note that the above is not a complete list of all possible side effects. If you have any concerns about your medication or if you have other side effects that you think are caused by this medication, please consult your doctor or pharmacist.
If you take more than the recommended dose, please seek medical advice immediately. The information provided on this page does not replace information from your healthcare professional. Please consult your healthcare professional for more information.
This transcription captures the key details and instructions provided in the medication leaflet for Folic Acid, focusing on its uses, dosing instructions, potential side effects, and other important precautions.